## Firewall ->
Firewalking is a technique developed by Mike Schiffman and David Goldsmith that utilizes traceroute techniques and TTL values
to analyze IP packet responses in order to determine gateway ACL (Access Control List) filters and map networks. It is an
active reconnaissance network security analysis technique that attempts to determine which layer 4 protocols a specific
firewall will allow.

Question -> An incident investigator asks to receive a copy of the event logs from all firewalls, proxy servers, and Intrusion
Detection Systems (IDS) on the network of an organization that has experienced a possible breach of security. When the
investigator attempts to correlate the information in all of the logs, the sequence of many of the logged events do not match
up. What is the most likely cause?
Answer -> The attacker altered of erase events from the logs

Question -> Sam is working as s pen-tester in an organization in Houston. He performs penetration testing on IDS in order to
find the different ways an attacker uses to evade the IDS. Sam sends a large amount of packets to the target IDS that generates
alerts, which enable Sam to hide the real traffic. What type of method is Sam using to evade IDS?
Answer -> False Positive Generation

Question -> In 2007, this wireless security algorithm was rendered useless by capturing packets and discovering the passkey in
a matter of seconds. This security flaw led to a network invasion of TJ Maxx and data theft through a technique known as
wardriving. Which Algorithm is this referring to?
Answer -> Wired Equivalent Privacy(WEP)

Packet-Filtering Firewalls->
As the most “basic” and oldest type of firewall architecture, packet-filtering firewalls basically create a checkpoint at a
traffic router or switch. The firewall performs a simple check of the data packets coming through the router—inspecting
information such as the destination and origination IP address, packet type, port number, and other surface-level 
information without opening up the packet to inspect its contents.
If the information packet doesn’t pass the inspection, it is dropped.
The good thing about these firewalls is that they aren’t very resource-intensive. This means they don’t have a huge impact
on system performance and are relatively simple. However, they’re also relatively easy to bypass compared to firewalls with
more robust inspection capabilities.

Question -> Which of the following types of firewall inspects only header information in network traffic?
Answer -> Packet Filter

Circuit-Level Gateways->
As another simplistic firewall type that is meant to quickly and easily approve or deny traffic without consuming
significant computing resources, circuit-level gateways work by verifying the transmission control protocol (TCP) handshake.
This TCP handshake check is designed to make sure that the session the packet is from is legitimate.
While extremely resource-efficient, these firewalls do not check the packet itself. So, if a packet held malware, but had
the right TCP handshake, it would pass right through. This is why circuit-level gateways are not enough to protect your
business by themselves.
circuit level gateway works at layer 4-TCP(Transport Layer) of the OSI Model
Circuit level Gateway The Firewall service redirects the necessary functions to the server, thus establishing a 
communication path from the internal application to the Internet application. This eliminates the need for a specific
gateway for each protocol, such as Network News Transfer Protocol (NNTP), SMTP, Telnet, or File Transfer Protocol (FTP). 
Even if there are applications without built-in support for a proxy, or no knowledge of the firewall, firewall service still
provides its benefits. Circuit-level filtering allows for sessions inspection, as opposed to connections or packets. A 
session can include multiple connections, providing a number of important benefits for Windows-based clients running the
Firewall Client software. First, like dynamic packet filtering, sessions are established only in response to a user request,
improving the security. Second, circuit-level filtering provides built-in support for protocols with secondary connections,
such as FTP and streaming media

Question -> While conducting a penetration test, the tester determines that there is a firewall between the tester's machine
and the target machine. The firewall is only monitoring TCP handshaking of packets at the session layer of the OSI model. Which
type of firewall is the tester trying to traverse?
Answer -> Circuit-level gateway firewall

Stateful Inspection Firewalls->
These firewalls combine both packet inspection technology and TCP handshake verification to create a level of protection
greater than either of the previous two architectures could provide alone.
However, these firewalls do put more of a strain on computing resources as well. This may slow down the transfer of
legitimate packets compared to the other solutions.

Question -> Which of the following types of firewalls ensures that the packets are part of the established session?
Answer -> Stateful inspection firewall

Question -> During a black box pen test you attempt to pass IRC traffic over port 80/TCP from a compromised web enabled host.
The traffic gets blocked; however, outbound HTTP traffic is unimpeded.What type of firewall is inspecting outbound traffic?
Answer 1-> Statefull 
Answer 2-> Application  // these answers r conflicting
// unimpeded meaning is not obstructed or hindered

Proxy Firewalls (Application-Level Gateways)->
Proxy firewalls operate at the application layer to filter incoming traffic between your network and the traffic source
hence, the name “application-level gateway.” Rather than letting traffic connect directly, the proxy firewall first
establishes a connection to the source of the traffic and inspects the incoming data packet.
This check is similar to the stateful inspection firewall in that it looks at both the packet and at the TCP handshake
protocol. However, proxy firewalls may also perform deep-layer packet inspections, checking the actual contents of the
information packet to verify that it contains no malware.
Once the check is complete, and the packet is approved to connect to the destination, the proxy sends it off. This creates
an extra layer of separation between the “client” (the system where the packet originated) and the individual devices on
your network—obscuring them to create additional anonymity and protection for your network.
If there’s one drawback to proxy firewalls, it’s that they can create significant slowdown because of the extra steps in the
data packet transferal process. 

Question -> One advantage of an application-level firewall is the ability to
Answer -> filter specific commands, such as http:post

Question -> Which of the statements concerning proxy firewalls is correct?
Answer -> Computer establish a connection with a proxy firewall which initiates a new network connection for the client
- Udemy Practice test __2 Question 39

Next-Generation Firewalls->
Many of the most recently-released firewall products are being touted as “next-generation” architectures. However, there is
not as much consensus on what makes a firewall truly next-gen.
Some common features of next-generation firewall architectures include deep-packet inspection (checking the actual contents
of the data packet), TCP handshake checks, and surface-level packet inspection. Next-generation firewalls may include other
technologies as well, such as intrusion prevention systems (IPSs) that work to automatically stop attacks against your
network.
The issue is that there is no one definition of a next-generation firewall, so it’s important to verify what specific
capabilities such firewalls have before investing in one.

Stateless -> Stateless firewalls watch network traffic and restrict or block packets based on source and destination
addresses or other static values. They’re not ‘aware’ of traffic patterns or data flows. A stateless firewall uses simple
rule-sets that do not account for the possibility that a packet might be received by the firewall ‘pretending’ to be
something you asked for.
A stateless firewall filter, also known as an access control list (ACL), does not statefully inspect traffic. Instead, it
evaluates packet contents statically and does not keep track of the state of network connections.

Question -> During a penetration test, the tester conducts an ACK scan using NMAP against the external interface of the DMZ
firewall. NMAP reports that port 80 is unfiltered. Based on this response, which type of packet inspection is the firewall
conducting?
Answer -> Stateless

Question -> Firewalls are the software or hardware systems that are able to control and monitor the traffic coming in and out
the target network based on pre-defined set of rules. Which of the following types of firewalls can protect against SQL
injection attacks?
Answer -> Web application firewall

Question -> You are a security officer of a company. You had an alert from IDS that indicates that one PC on your Intranet is
connected to a blacklisted IP address (C2 Server) on the Internet. The IP address was blacklisted just before the alert. You
are staring an investigation to roughly analyze the severity of the situation. Which of the following is appropriate to analyze?
Answer -> Internet Firewall/Proxy log

Firewalls are categorized into two; namely hardware firewall and software firewall.
Software Firewall is placed between the normal application and the networking components of the operating system

Firewall check Application layer headers and Transport layer port numbers to prevent particular ports and applications from
getting packets into an organization. 

The first step in building a firewall is to perform a risk analysis to identify issues to be addressed.

cmd -> Netsh firewall show config // this cmd is used to gain access to a Windows application server and needs to determine
       the settings of the built-in Windows firewall

In order to properly function dual-homed hardware is required by an IDS/IPS system or a proxy server.
Dual-homed or dual-homing can refer to either an Ethernet device that has more than one network interface, for redundancy
purposes, or in firewall technology, dual-homed is one of the firewall architectures, such as an IDS/IPS system, for
implementing preventive security.

Minimum number of network connections in a multi homed firewall is 3

Rule based access control is used on a router or firewall to limit network activity.

Defense-in-depth is a security strategy in which several protection layers are placed throughout an information system. It
helps to prevent direct attacks against an information system and data because a break in one layer only leads the attacker
to the next layer.

Question -> What network security concept requires multiple layers of security controls to be placed throughout an IT
infrastructure, which improves the security posture of an organization to defend against malicious attacks or potential
vulnerabilities? What kind of Web application vulnerability likely exists in their software?
Answer -> Defense in Depth

Screened subnet - firewall architecture that is designed to host servers that offer public services

Web application firewall -> - Udemy Practice test ___6 Question 61

Network layer firewalls, also called packet filters, operate at a relatively low level of the TCP/IP protocol stack, not 
allowing packets to pass through the firewall unless they match the established rule set. To prevent Web Application attacks
an Application layer firewall would be required. 
References: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Firewall_(computing)#Network_layer_or_packet_filters

While tuning security alerts the best approach is to tune to avoid False positives and False Negatives.

FAR(False Acceptance Rate) is the most important in designing a bio-metric access system if it is essential that no one
other than authorized individuals are admitted

True Negative: An event when no attack has taken place and no detection is made.
True Positive: A legitimate attack which triggers to produce an alarm.
False Positive: An event signaling to produce an alarm when no attack has taken place 
	- Udemy Practice test __2 Question 124
False Negative: When no alarm is raised when an attack has taken place.

Question -> When analyzing the IDS logs, the system administrator noticed an alert was logged when the external router was
accessed from the administrator's computer to update the router configuration. What type of an alert is this?
Answer -> False Positive

Question -> A network administrator received an administrative alert at 3:00 a.m. from the intrusion detection system. The
alert was generated because a large number of packets were coming into the network over ports 20 and 21. During analysis,
there were no signs of attack on the FTP servers. How should the administrator classify this situation?
Answer -> False Positives

https://drive.google.com/drive/u/1/my-drive ques 50

IDS ->
- Scanning the target network slowly prevents an IDS from alerting because the traffic may not be considered an anomaly. If
 the sensor sees a huge amount of traffic being generated, it may cause the sensor to alert; therefore, it is best practice
 to scan slowly.
- IDS is designed to identify malicious attempts to penetrate systems 
- Anomoly detection IDS detection technique detects the intrusion based on the fixed behavioral characteristics of the users
 and components in a computer system // Any deviations from a regular/baseline behavior might trigger an alert or incident.
 That would be termed as Anomaly Detection. Ex, sudden spike in Firewall traffic
- IDS using signature based detection system compare the input strings against the signature to detect intrusion.
- conceptual characteristic of an anomaly-based IDS over a signature-based IDS is can identify unknown attacks
- Insertion attack IDS evasion techniques to bypass intrusion detection mechanisms. IT rely on Time-to-Live (TTL) fields of 
  a TCP/IP packet  
- IP Fragmentation or Session Splicing -> IDS defeating technique works by splitting a datagram (or packet) into multiple
 fragments and the IDS will not spot the true nature of the fully assembled datagram. The datagram is not reassembled until
 it reaches its final destination. It would be a processor-intensive task for IDS to reassemble all fragments itself, and on
 a busy system the packet will slip through the IDS onto the network. 
- IDS (Session Splicing) tool -> Whisker 
- Unicode characters is an extremely common IDS evasion technique in the web world
- Statistical anomoly is a Network intrusion detection technique
- More sophisticated IDSs look for common shellcode signatures. But even these systems can be bypassed, by using polymorphic
  shellcode. In this technique the virus writers encrypt the shellcode by XORing values over the shellcode, using loader code
  to decrypt the shellcode and then executing the decrypted shellcode, It basically hides the true nature of the shellcode in
  different disguises. 
- Network based IDS r needed to monitor all network traffic on your local network for suspicious Activities and receive
  notifications when an attack is occurring.
- The main advantage that a network-based IDS/IPS system has over a host-based solution is they do not use host system
 resources
- Network based IDS r best applicable for large environments where critical assets on the network need extra scrutiny and is
 ideal for observing sensitive network segments 
- Passive IDS can monitor and alert on attacks, but cannot stop them
- Udemy Practice test _5 Question 52
- Udemy Practice test ___6 Question 63
- Udemy Practice test _2 Question 124
- Udemy Practice test __1 Question 77
- Udemy Practice test __2 Question 50

- Snort (tool for practicing IDS) - Udemy Practice test _5 Question 35
- the three modes in which Snort can be configured to run ->
	- Sniffer
	- Packet logger
	- Network IDS
- Proper basic configuration of snort as a network intrusion detection system require to limit the packets captured to the 
snort configuration file.

